Hi, everybody.
This week, I'm speaking
to you from our
Nuclear Security Summit.
I welcomed more than 50
leaders from around the
world to make sure we're
working together to meet one
of the greatest threats to
global security - terrorists
getting their hands on a
weapon of mass destruction,
like a nuclear weapon.
Fortunately, because
of our efforts so far,
no terrorist group has yet
succeeded in obtaining a
nuclear device or producing
a dirty bomb using
radioactive materials.
But we know that
al Qaeda has tried.
ISIL has already used
chemical weapons in Syria
and Iraq.
And if they ever got hold of
a nuclear weapon or nuclear
material, we have no
doubt they'd use it.
That's why we've been
leading a global effort to
secure the world's
nuclear materials.
And with summits like
this,
we've made important progress.
Working with other nations,
we have removed or secured
enough nuclear material
for more than 150 nuclear
weapons - material that will
now never fall into the
hands of terrorists.
All of South America is
now free
of these deadly materials.
Central Europe and Southeast
Asia are on track to be free
of them later this year.
That means that as
terrorists and criminal
gangs look around for the
deadly ingredients for a
nuclear device, vast regions
of the world are now off limits.
This is a remarkable
achievement.
And at this summit, we
pledged to keep up our
efforts to prevent the
world's most deadly networks
from obtaining the world's
most deadly weapons.
Our summit was also another
opportunity to make sure the
world remains united and
focused on destroying ISIL.
A majority of the nations
who came here are part of
our global coalition
against ISIL.
A number of our countries
have been targeted by ISIL.
Just about all our nations
have seen citizens travel to
join ISIL in Syria and Iraq.
In Syria and Iraq, ISIL
continues to lose ground.
Our coalition continues
to take out its leaders,
including those planning
terrorist attacks against
our countries.
They're losing their oil
infrastructure and revenues.
Their morale is suffering.
As ISIL is squeezed
in Syria and Iraq,
it's lashing out elsewhere,
as we've seen most recently-
and tragically-from
Turkey to Brussels.
During our summit, we
focused on ways to step up
our efforts to disrupt
terrorist attacks.
It requires even more
cooperation to prevent the
flow of foreign terrorist
fighters and sharing even
more information
and intelligence.
That's why I invited all the
nations represented at this
summit to join us in a
broader discussion among our
intelligence and security
services on how we can
improve information sharing
to prevent terrorist attacks.
This continues to be
a difficult fight.
But every day, our dedicated
professionals - military,
diplomatic, intelligence,
counterterrorism,
homeland security,
law enforcement,
nuclear experts-are
working to protect us.
Because of the progress
we made this week,
and over recent years, more
of the world's nuclear
material is secure.
It's harder for
terrorists to get it.
And as Commander in Chief, I
want you to know that we're
going to keep doing
everything in our power to
keep our nation safe
and strong and free.